Hello. This will be a video on the six
different types of paid ad funnels that
agencies can use to scale to $10 million
per year in revenue. On the screen, we
have the scale your agency funnel. For
this video, we're really going to be
talking about paid ads and the different
funnels that we can do to ultimately
book calls and make sales. So, let's go
into it a little bit. There's going to
be nine different things that we're
going to talk about. The first is we're
going to be talking about the funnel as
a little hole. The table of contents is
where we are right now. I'm going to
talk about myself a little bit. Then I'm
going to talk about the four problems
agencies face. The infinite cycle of
lead generation, how this ties into paid
ads, and then we're going to go over
three things in relation to these
funnels. when to do paid ads, the six
different type of paid ad funnels you
can do, how I can help you build these,
and then as a bonus right now, if you
want to go into the description or the
pinned comment, you can download my 12
free agency trainings. So, about me, if
you've never watched one of my videos
before, my name is Matthew Larson. I
have built and exited three agencies
since I started in 2013.
I consult with over 550 agencies every
single month and I make all of these
videos about scaling an agency to $10
million per year. I don't really make
these videos about scaling to $10
million per year arbitrarily. I just
think that if you have a $10 million per
year revenue, you can easily net 5
million or more after tax with you and a
co-founder and that will set you up for
life where you can either build another
agency, go do something different, or
all of that kind of stuff. These paid ad
funnels are very important because this
funnel that we had on the screen earlier
solves the four problems that agencies
face. The first is not enough traffic.
And that's really what we're going to be
talking about today. But the other ones
are not enough leads. All of their
clients come from referrals and 99% of
their leads are unqualified. And
essentially this funnel is meant to
solve all these problems. you want to
solve all of these poor problems because
if you don't, we're going to be what I
call on the wrong side of the infinite
cycle of lead generation. So, this cycle
is something that I made up as a as a
drawing to basically illustrate a very
real and a very complex situation. So,
you are either going to be on the
positive side of this or the negative
side. It's never a net neutral. So,
let's just explain it here. The more
leads you get, the less needy you
become. The less needy you become, the
less you need any individual sale, the
easier it becomes to sell. You can also
say no to nightmare clients who you tell
are going to be an absolute dog to work
with. You're also going to get more
clients, which means more referrals,
which means even more leads. Even more
leads means now the laws of supply and
demand have swung to your favor, and you
can charge higher prices for the same
thing. Higher prices for the same thing
equals more margin. More margin equals
better hires. Better hires mean less
time spent on the actual work. And now
you'll have more time and money to
reinvest in growth, which will lead to
more leads. And the cycle goes and
levels up and levels up and levels up.
However, the opposite is also very true.
Like if you have less leads, you're
going to become more needy. More needy
is harder to sell. You're going to have
to take on those nightmare clients.
You're going to get less clients and
less referrals in general. You may even
need to lower prices, which means lower
margin and worse hires. You're going to
spend more time working, more time
fixing mistakes, more time babysitting,
less money and time to reinvest in
growth and get lower lower amount of
leads and then so on. The cycle repeats
itself. This is the situation for most
agency owners and that's why I made this
video today. So, if we go back, we are
going to talk about the different types
of paid ad funnels that agencies can
create. So, starting at the top with
paid ads up here, we could do something
like a lead magnet funnel. We could do a
digital product funnel. We could do a
webinar funnel or a VSSL funnel. We can
do all of these different types of
funnels, a case study funnel, a training
funnel, who knows? But they all
basically lead to the same place, which
is to generate more calls. So, paid ads
definitely solves problem number one,
which is not enough traffic. Paid ads
are definitely the most scalable form of
traffic as opposed to content, which is
unpredictable, and outreach, which is
very linear. You should consider paid
ads more of a situation of pouring
gasoline on a fire that's already
burning than anything else. At its very
core, at the root of paid ads, paid ads
are buying attention and impressions.
Paid ads also represent the most risk of
any client acquisition method just in
the sense that you can lose a lot of
money if you don't do it properly. I
don't really believe in using paid ads
to start the fire in most cases. That's
would be akin to pouring gasoline in a
fire pit and lighting a match. It's just
a very cheap unsustainable way to get a
fire going. You really want to build a
solid foundation, put the logs in the
fire, get the fire going, and then you
can pour gasoline on it. Like I said
before, and something that I think a lot
of people just don't fully grasp, even
though I wouldn't consider it to be
super complicated, is that buying more
impressions and attention to something
that doesn't work is not going to do
anything. You're just going to waste
your money. And I feel like this is what
a lot of agency owners do. Should I run
ads? Like, okay, why would you do that?
And then we're going to get into that.
So, let's see. There's five things that
I believe must be true before we want to
do paid ads. and I'm just going to go
over them here. The first is you are
already doing outreach and content. The
reason for that is let's say you're
running Facebook ads and just well meta
ads, meta Instagram, that kind of stuff.
If someone sees your meta ad and they
click on your profile and there's
basically just nothing there, it's bare
or it's very uninspiring, that is not
going to look trustworthy at all. You
need to be posting valuable content. You
need to be active. You need to have a
fully branded profile in all of the
platforms before you even think to
running ads because that is really going
to lower the effectiveness of 50% 75%
even more. Being active and being
valuable is very very important. And I
if you're going to do this, I would
prioritize being active. It's a a very
very interesting concept and phenomenon.
I don't think it's too like hard to
understand, but the conversion rate and
the clickthrough rate of ads is directly
proportionate to a much greater like
degree than I think most people would
think by just having an active social
media profile on whatever platform
you're running ads. The second thing
that I think we should do before we
start running ads is we have to be in a
situation where losing 3K per month in
like in this in the scenario that these
ads just completely bomb doesn't mean
anything to us if we're just starting
out or we're in the early stages of our
agency and we just wouldn't want to lose
3K per month. Like that would actually
do a meaningful impact to our bottom
line or our income as a whole. I don't
think ads are for us. We should only do
that if we're going to spend 3K or more,
which is $100 per day. Anything less
than that, the data is going to be too
slow and it's just probably not a good
idea. The next thing is that you have an
appointment setter to contact the leads
you generate, which withever with
whichever paid adfunnel within 5
minutes. You're very going to suffer if
you don't have this. It's going to be
two, three, four, five times as many
calls with an actual appointment setting
and sales process versus not having
that. I also believe that if you're
going to run ads, the target market
should be a minimum of 10,000
businesses. If you sell to Fortune 500
companies, for example, and there's, you
know, well, 500 companies in this
situation, it's much more likely you're
going to have like to be putting your
time towards outreach, prospecting,
building relationship, networking,
events, that kind of stuff than trying
to spend the same amount of time and
effort making an adfunnel that works.
And then the fifth one is your offer is
proven to convert. And I like to test
out these offers usually with outreach
and content before ever trying to do it
with paid ads just because you're going
to get the same feedback. You're going
to get the same, you know, amount of
testing without potentially losing a lot
of money. And I think that these five
things in general, if we don't have all
five, we should probably not run ads.
These things aren't that like tough to
do or tough to achieve. So most people
can and should run ads. probably upwards
of 95% of agencies, but I think a lot of
them will be very important. So, you
should be doing outreach and you should
be posting content. You should probably
be 30K a month or more in revenue to
where losing 3K a month doesn't really
mean much to you. You should just have
an appointment setter and processing
that takes maybe a week to set up. Your
target market is your target market, but
it should be 10,000 plus businesses. And
then you have an offer that you have
sold. If you've only ever gotten clients
from referrals, you don't really
probably even have an offer to be
honest. And that's a situation where
most people, you know, won't have
success with ads if they just don't have
an offer. Cuz when you're doing paid
ads, you know, your social proof doesn't
really mean as much or it's not going to
get you in the door. You know, you don't
have the credibility of someone
referring you, that kind of stuff. So,
you really need to it's kind of playing
on hard mode in in comparison to content
and in comparison to
referrals. So, there's six paid ad
funnels that I think that pretty much
every agency can take advantage of or
there's just six options and you're
going to decide which one's best for
you. The first is going to be a direct
offer adfunnel. The next is going to be
a training funnel. Then there's going to
be a case study funnel, a webinar
funnel, a lead magnet funnel, and a
digital product funnel. These will be
better in different situations with
different offers and niches and target
markets. All of them have their place in
some degree, but depending on your
situation, one or two are always going
to be better than the other basically
four. So the first is a direct offer
adfunnel. And this is really good when
you have a strong intro offer that would
be good for your target market. There's
certainly some situations where you know
that is not the case and you just can't
do it um in comparison to a lot of other
kind of agencies. The next is a training
funnel and I forgot to do this. Best for
when they need to try your ideas out to
believe you.
This is very good. Consider like a sales
process or a sales trainer or a sales
agency. They are basically a business
owner or an employee who's doing a lot
of sales. You say to do X, Y, and Z,
they don't really believe you, but then
if you give them a few tips and you try
it out and it works, then they come back
and they convert. That would be a good
use of a training funnel. A case study
funnel is best for when you're targeting
bigger businesses. I feel very strongly
about this because if you're targeting
you multi-ight figure, nine figure,
maybe even bigger businesses, their
bureaucracy is probably going to be too
strong to have a direct offer actually
work and they have gotten to where
they're trying to go in general or
they've gotten to this point by being
good and they don't necessarily need
training. So, a case study funnel like
how we helped X company get to Y results
with our service is going to be a lot
more appealing to those big businesses
because it's a form of social proof and
everybody likes ideas of businesses
similar size to them. The webinar funnel
would be best when you need to either
artificially condense the sales cycle or
explain something very complex or both.
So, for example, watching my YouTube
videos, it takes the average person 3 to
6 months anywhere in that range to
actually become my client. They need to
know a lot about my philosophy. They
need to know how this works. My overall
funnel is not something that's
frequently taught or just, you know,
part of the cultural norm. So, a webinar
would be great for a situation like me
where I can jam-pack 3 to 6 months of
YouTube videos and training and
indoctrinating them into my philosophy
in a 60 to 90 minute webinar. Or if you
have some sort of complex service, it's
also good, too. I'm going to also add a
demo in here for anybody who sells to
kind of like companies that would need a
demo. The next is going to be a lead
magnet funnel. These are best for when
you're already scaling and you already
have one or more ad funnels working and
you essentially want to buy more
impressions and build your list and
basically add fuel to the fire. And then
a digital product is best for when you
have some sort of templates or assets
that you just it's inherently obvious
that you could sell to them and it would
be great. Stuff like you're an email
marketing agency, email templates.
You're an ad agency, ad templates.
You're a landing page agency, landing
page templates. Something like that.
Now, let's go through some situations
where you wouldn't use some of these
offers. You would never use a direct
offer when you don't have a service or
some sort of intro offer that is
inherently obvious as to how it's
valuable in the context of your target
market. That was an extremely wordy
thing to say. But there's certain
situations where whatever service you
provide, you just don't have an obvious
intro offer. Something like a Google Ads
agency is pretty good example of this.
Yeah, you could set up some campaigns,
for example, I guess, but it's just I
don't know. There's not that many
options for a direct offer. You would
not use a training funnel if your
service has been around for a long time
and there's no real perceived value in
training. The key word here is
perceived. There's always value in
training, but if people kind of think
your stuff is commoditized and you know,
it's just obvious, there's not a lot of
to-do. stuff like email marketing, stuff
like SEO just been around for so long
that the training funnel would have
little to no perceived value. You would
never use a case study temp uh case
study funnel if you don't have a very
impressive case study to your target
audience. Let's see, let's add that in
the context of your target audience. And
what I mean by that is if you're
targeting, let's say you have a a
Facebook ad agency for e-commerce. If
you have a case study that says this is
how we added 200k to this client's
bottom line or 200k to this client's
revenue and they like that's not really
going to be appealing to someone who's
doing eight and nine figures like just
why would they want to add 200k if you
had something that we added 6 million
per month over the course of a year like
that would be an appealing case study.
So, you need to have a case study
impressive to your target market. And
that can be different depending on what
your target market
is. You probably wouldn't use a webinar
funnel if you have ultra high ticket or
enterprise clients as just time is of
the essence. The higher and higher and
higher and the richer and richer and
richer the people get. Time is more and
more valuable and they're probably not
going to be as likely to sit through
your 60 to 60 minute to 180 minute
webinar. Is there always exceptions to
that rule? Of course. But just because
there's exceptions doesn't disprove the
general idea that that is true. You
would not use a lead magnet funnel
unless you have every other part of the
funnel. Cuz lead magnets are more like
pouring attention and gasoline on the
fire as opposed to starting the fire
from scratch. If you have your YouTube
videos rolling, you have your content
rolling, you have another type of
adunnel, you have your newsletter, your
webinar, your VSSL, your community, all
that kind of stuff, lead magnets are a
way to just pour extra fuel and extra
attention on the fire. And you wouldn't
use a digital product unless it's kind
of obvious how your product makes them
more money or saves them time. Like a
Google Ads swipe file for search ads
probably wouldn't be that good as a
digital product. info is not really
good. It's a digital product. In my
opinion, the digital product should be
under $100 and should save them time or
make them more money. Basically, if you
can't offer templates or frameworks or
assets, I probably wouldn't use a
digital product. So, I'm going to go
through for the rest of the video kind
of what some of these funnels look like.
I made some frameworks for you to follow
along to try to hopefully simplify it in
a number of steps. And to get started is
going to be the direct offer, training,
and case study funnel. In this case,
these are all book a call funnels that
run through a VSSL. They're all going to
look the exact same. It's just a matter
of what your VSSL and focus is. So,
you're going to basically drive traffic
to this through two paths. One is
through content and one is through ads.
If you're going to drive it through
content, you probably are going to have
a your content go to an opt-in page with
a lead magnet to basically capture their
email address and start marketing to
them. The reason for that is people are
a lot more warm, so to speak, through
content as opposed to paid ads. Much
more likely to give you their name,
email, phone number, website revenue
level than someone with paid ads.
Whereas paid ads, you're spending a lot
of money. You need it to work. You need
them to consume your VSSL and book a
call. not really the case with content.
You can kind of just maybe they'll come
back eventually another time. So, paid
ads will always go to the page of the
VSSL. When they're on the page of the
VSSL, there's going to be an apply
button with a form. The form is going to
separate out who's qualified and who's
unqualified. Usually, you'll do stuff
like revenue level, are they okay with
the price, are they okay with the
timeline? You know, if they are just too
low of a revenue level for you, you
might sep use the conditional logic to
put them to a downell page. Maybe you
have a course or a digital product or
even a webinar or something like that.
You will filter them out there. But if
they're qualified, they're going to be
able to book a call. The book a call
would be to the thank you page with
extra information, FAQs, more videos,
that kind of stuff. Then they're going
to go to the sales call whenever they
book it. Whether they opt in from the
lead magnet or they end up coming from
the form, they're going to get that
welcome flow. This welcome flow is going
to nurture the people who do not book a
call over the course of 30 days. And
hopefully they book a call. Then when
they book a call, they're going to get a
pre-all flow with FAQs, with
information, with case studies, with
proof, with next steps, all of that kind
of stuff to basically get them prepared
for the call. And after the call,
assuming they don't convert in 5
minutes, they're going to be added to a
follow-up flow, which will basically
follow up automatically for you with
more information. So whether you have a
case study or a direct offer or
training, this funnel is more or less
going to look the exact same. I actually
am probably going to in the future put
an appointment setting thing right here
just to signify that there is an
appointment setter here, but it's all
going to look pretty much the exact
same. The next is going to be a webinar
funnel and it's kind of going to look
rather similar, but there's just a few
different steps. So, from content, I
still like to do an opt-in page. the
opt-in page would redirect to the
webinar signup page. So, they're going
to get there either way and the paid ad
goes directly to the page. If they have
opted into the lead magnet, they're
going to get that welcome flow that's
going to basically point to, you know,
the webinar signup. But if they sign up
for the webinar, basically you are going
to conduct the webinar. In many cases,
they are going to determine whether or
not they are qualified themselves. And
if they are unqualified, you might go to
a downell. If they're qualified, they're
going to book a call and you're going to
go through pretty much the same process.
It's just basically in terms of a
webinar, in most cases, if you structure
it right, they're going to be the ones
who are going to say, "This is for me,"
and book a call, or this is not for me,
and maybe buy something
else. For the lead magnet funnel, it's
kind of a longer funnel than some of the
other ones in terms of, you know, what
we're doing. Basically, we have the lead
magnet opt-in page here. In the other
funnels, this still existed, but this is
be the focal point of this one. So, both
the ads and the content will go to this
in this situation instead of the VSSL
with or the sales page with the VSSL.
Normally, what you're going to want to
do is promote some sort of other
conversion mechanism on your thank you
page. So, in the context of this funnel,
if we go back to it at the top, the
conversion mechanisms are going to be
our webinar and VSSL. They're going to
be our live workshop, our newsletter,
our community content, all of that kind
of stuff. So, if we go back
down, so on the thank you page, you're
kind of going to want to promote
whichever one you have determined is
going to make the most sense for you.
Let's just say that way. And then, let's
say that's a community. So, your
community would be on the thank you
page. If they join that, you can ask
them for more information. name, phone
number, email, website, revenue, and
that helps you qualify. Then your
newsletter is going to hit all of them
every single day. And your appointment
setter is going to reach out to the ones
that are qualified. Your newsletter and
appointment setter can either go to, you
know, directly to like let's book a call
with me and get on this thing or they
can also cross-promote other conversion
mechanisms such as live workshops,
pre-recorded webinars, community, your
YouTube channel, your content on all
that kind of stuff. Essentially, if the
appointment
setter kind of gets to the point or
discovers that they're ready for a call,
he would he or she, I guess, would
encourage them to do so. or if they find
out that you know they are qualified or
not, he would encourage them to book a
call. If the newsletter or the
appointment setter or the enriched data
from the signup page of any of these
conversion mechanisms eventually
determine they are unqualified, usually
revenue level or something else, we go
to the down cell. If they determine we
are qualified, go to the similar process
to the other stuff. Hopefully I
explained that right. The final one I'm
going to talk about in this video is
going to be the digital product. So,
still I have the exact same start with
the content and the opt-in page going to
the sales page. This would be the sales
page for the digital product, whether
that's templates or something else. The
buttons would go to the checkout page.
The checkout page after they purchase
would go to a one-time offer as an
upsell to try to increase that average
order value. Then, they would be
redirected whether they took the
one-time upsell or not to an onboarding.
There's three things that I think are
very good with onboarding. We want to
provide the training, the access, and
the swipe files, which are examples on
how to use the templates, as well as a
post-purchase flow that usually 7 to 14
days worth of content every single day
to make sure they accessed it, are using
it properly, that kind of stuff. It will
actually have a much higher consumption
rate if you do have that. And it will
also prevent a lot of chargebacks or
refunds from people who are too low IQ
to even use your digital product. And
then all of those should also try to get
them into a community for this digital
product. Then they're going to go in
your upsell flow. That's going to be,
you know, email retargeting ads,
appointment setting, that kind of stuff
to basically do the same process as any
of the other um funnels. Are they
qualified or are they not? And then we
go through the same process. So, in all,
like this is a video. Hopefully, I've
done it a a good enough job of
explaining the different types of paid
adels that an agency can use. As far as
to which one is the best, that's going
to be kind of dependent on who you are,
what you're selling your target
audience, but also these are not
mutually exclusive. I like to have as
many of these working as possible. I
would start with one, get it working,
and start and add another. You can never
have too many different ad funnels,
assuming they all work, because each are
going to make the other ones more
effective. If someone has downloaded
your lead magnet funnel and they like
your stuff, they're much more likely to
sign up for a webinar or they're much
more likely to watch your case study.
They've watched your case study and seen
your webinar and downloaded your lead
magnet and now they're hit with a direct
offer, much more likely to schedule a
call. They all work together. It's one
cohesive system. It's not individual
parts. And if you want me to help you do
this, I actually do this for about 550
agency owners within 16 weeks in my
agency program called Scale Your Agency,
where I give you a step-by-step plan to
do this. I give you the real time
feedback and what you need. I give you
all the templates, assets, and
frameworks and examples that you need.
If that sounds interesting to you, you
can book a call with me and we will get
started right away. Thanks for watching.